---
layout: post
title: Design It! - 04 - Empathize with Stakeholders
categories: [Reading]
tags: [Career, Design, Architecture]
fullview: false
comments: true
---

The Book could be found here: [Design It!](https://www.amazon.com/Design-Programmer-Architect-Pragmatic-Programmers/dp/1680502093/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1540791825&sr=8-1&keywords=design+it%21)

This is a reading notes of the book. It is the first design/architecture book I plan to ready. I have read some samples and seems a hands-on book. Will summarize whatever I learned to here.

We call people with an interest or concern in our software *stakeholders*.

# Talk to the Right People

1. Determine what matters to the customer
2. Design around the customer's needs and document it in a prototype
3. Review the prototype as early as possible with customer
4. Revise the architecture based on the feedback from the customer's review

# Create a Stakeholder Map

A *stakeholder map* is a network diagram showing all the people involved with or affected by the proposed software system.

Step back and look at the stakeholder map after you’ve created it. Who is paying for the software? Who is using it? Are there network hubs with many incoming or outgoing arrows? Are there stakeholders with potential conflicts of interest? These people are all excellent candidates for interviews and further research.

# Discover the Business Goals

*Business goals* describe what stakeholders hope to accomplish with the software. Business goals also seed conversations about quality attributes, trade-offs, and technical debt.

| Who wants it | What they want |
|----|-------------------|
| Individuals | Increase wealth, power, reputation, personal enjoyment, or knowledge |
| Organizations | Increase revenue, maximize profits, grow the business, become a market leader, improve stability, enter a new market, beat a competitor |
| Employees | Interesting and meaningful work, increase knowledge, help users, become recognized as an expert |
| Development Team | Improve specific quality attributes, reduce costs, add new features, implement a standard, improve time-to-market |
| Nations, governments | Security, civic welfare, social responsibility, legal compliance |

Good business goal statements include three things:

* **Subject**: A specific person or role. If the stakeholder or group has a name, use it.
* **Outcome**: Express the stakeholder’s need as a measurable outcome. How does the world change if the system is successful? You will design an architecture to achieve this outcome.
* **Context**: Context shares an insight about a stakeholder’s need and helps build empathy. Ideally context is insightful and not completely obvious.

Most systems only have only three to five business goals. More than this and the goals become confusing and difficult to remember. When working with many stakeholders, it’s useful to record goals’ relative importance. A simple *must have* or *nice to have* designation is good enough for this purpose.

The point of view (POV) mad lib is a fun alternative that is similar to a user story but describes the value expected from the whole system instead of functionality.

What’s the worst that can happen? Sometimes thinking about failure can help uncover a business goal. People usually want to avoid failures.