---
layout: post
title: Design It! - 07 - Create a Foundation with Patterns
categories: [Reading]
tags: [Design, Architecture]
fullview: false
comments: true
---

The Book could be found here: [Design It!](https://www.amazon.com/Design-Programmer-Architect-Pragmatic-Programmers/dp/1680502093/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1540791825&sr=8-1&keywords=design+it%21)

This is a reading notes of the book. It is the first design/architecture book I plan to ready. I have read some samples and seems a hands-on book. Will summarize whatever I learned to here.

# What Is an Architecture Pattern?
An architecture pattern is a reusable solution to a specific problem.

# Patterns in This Chapter

* Layers
* Ports and Adapters
* Pipe-and-Filter
* Service-Oriented
* Publish-Subscribe
* Shared-Data
* Multi-Tier
* Center of Competence
* Open Source Contribution
* Big Ball of Mud

## Layers Pattern

Partitioning code into distinct and independent layers organized around a specific set of related concerns enables developers to work together better.

Layers promote decreased coupling between the layers and higher cohesion within, which promotes maintainability.

Use layers any time you need to change code modules independently of one another.

### Rules for Use

Every module must be allocated to one and only one layer. 

Layers above are allowed to use layers below, but this relation only goes one way. The allowed to use relation can be limited so the current layer may only use the layer immediately below it. Cyclical dependencies are not permitted.

### Strengths

Promotes maintainability, portability, reusability, testability, design time modifiability. Conceptually simple to implement. Layers can be made visible in the code.

### Weaknesses

Each layer introduces additional abstractions between the highest layers and the lowest. These additional abstractions increase complexity and may harm performance. Too many layers or leaky abstractions can make development painful for programmers.

## Ports and Adapters Pattern

Use this pattern when the system must support multiple input devices or when there is a risk that input devices could change.

### Rules for Use

Layers uaually but are not required to expose ports. Layers without ports are sometimes referred to as *inner layers*.

Adapters may satisfy the constraints of one or more ports. 

An adapter may only be injected into a port when that adapter implements the interface required by that port. 

Depending on the mechanisms used to realize elements and relations, the pattern may refer to design-time or runtime interactions. Be clear and consistent in your models whether you are showing module or C&C structures.

### Strengths

Promotes testability, maintainability, and modifiability. Different teams can work on different layers or adapters.

### Weaknesses

Mechanisms must be developed to select adapters used at runtime. Runtime qualities such as security and reliability are decided by the adapters. Third-party adapters should be selected with care.



