---
layout: post
title: Design It! - 06 - Choose an Architecture (Before It Chooses You)
categories: [Reading]
tags: [Design, Architecture]
fullview: false
comments: true
---

The Book could be found here: [Design It!](https://www.amazon.com/Design-Programmer-Architect-Pragmatic-Programmers/dp/1680502093/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1540791825&sr=8-1&keywords=design+it%21)

This is a reading notes of the book. It is the first design/architecture book I plan to ready. I have read some samples and seems a hands-on book. Will summarize whatever I learned to here.

## Summary

Designing software architecture is all about making decisions under uncertainty. Design decisions are loaded with trade-offs, decisions that force us to compromise—give up something good to avoid something bad, or accept something bad to get something better. If we make acceptable trade-offs, then we’ll achieve our architecturally significant requirements and help our stakeholders reach their business goals.

## Diverge to See Options, Converge to Decide

Grady Booch has said, “All architecture is design, but not all design is architecture.”

Architects must explore these significant design decisions and actively choose how to organize the software to achieve desired quality attributes.

* Explore elements and their responsibilities to determine the general composition of structures in the architecture.
* Explore relations and their interfaces to determine how elements interact with one another.
* Explore the domain to understand the world the architecture models.
* Explore technology and frameworks to bootstrap promoting quality attributes.
* Explore construction and deployment methods to ensure the architecture can be shipped.
* Explore past designs to gain perspective and guide decision making.

For deployment:

* There are two basic methods for deploying a new version of a service with multiple instances: red/black or rolling upgrade.
* There are a collection of techniques used to overcome these inconsistencies—enforcing backward compatibility, using feature toggles, gracefully handling unknown responses from a dependent service
* Deployment and deployment strategies can cause inconsistencies when multiple instances of a service are being run.

## Promote Desired Quality Attributes

The decision matrix is a simple tool for summarizing the trade-off analysis among architecture design options. Use it to make decisions about any architectural choice from patterns to functional responsibilities to technology choice.

Using numbers in the matrix is tempting. Don’t. Numbers give a false sense of confidence and precision in the analysis.

## Assign Functional Responsibilities to Elements

Influential functional requirements make for a great checklist when assigning responsibilities to elements.

One approach for identifying responsibilities is to model the system with component responsibility collaborator cards

## Design for Change

Defer Binding Decisions until the Most Responsible Moment.

* **last responsible moment**, the time when a decision must be made to avoid losing important design alternatives.
* **most responsible moment**, the time at which a design decision has the greatest positive impact on the software system.

SOLID is a mnemonic to help remember the single responsibility, open/closed, Liskov substitution, interface segregation, and dependency inversion design principles.