---
layout: post
title: Design It! - 01 - Become a Software Architect
categories: [Reading]
tags: [Career, Design, Architecture]
fullview: false
comments: true
---

The Book could be found here: [Design It!](https://www.amazon.com/Design-Programmer-Architect-Pragmatic-Programmers/dp/1680502093/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1540791825&sr=8-1&keywords=design+it%21)

This is a reading notes of the book. It is the first design/architecture book I plan to ready. I have read some samples and seems a hands-on book. Will summarize whatever I learned to here.


## Module vs. Component

A module refers to a design time element whereas a component is a runtime idea. Anytime you want to describe a generic building block of an architecture instead of using component or module, use the word *element*.

* Module structures exist at design time.
* Component and connector structures come into existence at runtime.
* Allocation structures are created by showing how module and C&C elements correspond with each other and the physical elements that exist in real life.

## Review Your Recent Project

* Be specific when naming the elements. Don’t forget about the relations!
* Think about the module structures: What methods or classes are used? Do the classes live in different packages or namespaces? What dependencies are included in package managers or build scripts?
* Think about the C&C structures: Does the software interact with other processes or systems at runtime? Who calls the system and how does it change in response?
* Think about the allocation structures: Who is responsible for building different parts of the software? How is the software deployed?

**When you choose an architectural structure, you are choosing the quality attributes you want to be promoted in the software system.**

Answer the following questions for your project:

* Who were the stakeholders and what were the primary business goals?
* What did the high-level solution look like?
* What technologies were involved?
* What were the biggest risks and how did you overcome them?
* If you could do it all over again, how would you do it differently?*

## Build Amazing Software

1. Software architecture turns a big problem into smaller, more manageable problems.
2. Software architecture shows people how to work together.
3. Software architecture provides a vocabulary for talking about complex ideas.
4. Software architecture looks beyond features and functionality.
5. Software architecture helps you avoid costly mistakes.
6. Software architecture enables agility.


